count=1
* Dynamic Generative Targeted Attacks With Pattern Injection
    [[abs-CVPR](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2023/html/Feng_Dynamic_Generative_Targeted_Attacks_With_Pattern_Injection_CVPR_2023_paper.html)]
    [[pdf-CVPR](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2023/papers/Feng_Dynamic_Generative_Targeted_Attacks_With_Pattern_Injection_CVPR_2023_paper.pdf)]
    * Title: Dynamic Generative Targeted Attacks With Pattern Injection
    * Year: `2023`
    * Authors: Weiwei Feng, Nanqing Xu, Tianzhu Zhang, Yongdong Zhang
    * Abstract: Adversarial attacks can evaluate model robustness and have been of great concerns in recent years. Among various attacks, targeted attacks aim at misleading victim models to output adversary-desired predictions, which are more challenging and threatening than untargeted ones. Existing targeted attacks can be roughly divided into instancespecific and instance-agnostic attacks. Instance-specific attacks craft adversarial examples via iterative gradient updating on the specific instance. In contrast, instanceagnostic attacks learn a universal perturbation or a generative model on the global dataset to perform attacks. However they rely too much on the classification boundary of substitute models, ignoring the realistic distribution of target class, which may result in limited targeted attack performance. And there is no attempt to simultaneously combine the information of the specific instance and the global dataset. To deal with these limitations, we first conduct an analysis via a causal graph and propose to craft transferable targeted adversarial examples by injecting target patterns. Based on this analysis, we introduce a generative attack model composed of a cross-attention guided convolution module and a pattern injection module. Concretely, the former adopts a dynamic convolution kernel and a static convolution kernel for the specific instance and the global dataset, respectively, which can inherit the advantages of both instance-specific and instance-agnostic attacks. And the pattern injection module utilizes a pattern prototype to encode target patterns, which can guide the generation of targeted adversarial examples. Besides, we also provide rigorous theoretical analysis to guarantee the effectiveness of our method. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method show superior performance than 10 existing adversarial attacks against 13 models.
count=1
* Complex Activity Recognition using Granger Constrained DBN (GCDBN) in Sports and Surveillance Video
    [[abs-CVPR](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_cvpr_2014/html/Swears_Complex_Activity_Recognition_2014_CVPR_paper.html)]
    [[pdf-CVPR](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_cvpr_2014/papers/Swears_Complex_Activity_Recognition_2014_CVPR_paper.pdf)]
    * Title: Complex Activity Recognition using Granger Constrained DBN (GCDBN) in Sports and Surveillance Video
    * Year: `2014`
    * Authors: Eran Swears, Anthony Hoogs, Qiang Ji, Kim Boyer
    * Abstract: Modeling interactions of multiple co-occurring objects in a complex activity is becoming increasingly popular in the video domain. The Dynamic Bayesian Network (DBN) has been applied to this problem in the past due to its natural ability to statistically capture complex temporal dependencies. However, standard DBN structure learning algorithms are generatively learned, require manual structure definitions, and/or are computationally complex or restrictive. We propose a novel structure learning solution that fuses the Granger Causality statistic, a direct measure of temporal dependence, with the Adaboost feature selection algorithm to automatically constrain the temporal links of a DBN in a discriminative manner. This approach enables us to completely define the DBN structure prior to parameter learning, which reduces computational complexity in addition to providing a more descriptive structure. We refer to this modeling approach as the Granger Constraints DBN (GCDBN). Our experiments show how the GCDBN outperforms two of the most relevant state-of-the-art graphical models in complex activity classification on handball video data, surveillance data, and synthetic data.
