* Semantic 3D Reconstruction With Continuous Regularization and Ray Potentials Using a Visibility Consistency Constraint
    [[abs-CVPR](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_cvpr_2016/html/Savinov_Semantic_3D_Reconstruction_CVPR_2016_paper.html)]
    [[pdf-CVPR](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_cvpr_2016/papers/Savinov_Semantic_3D_Reconstruction_CVPR_2016_paper.pdf)]
    * Title: Semantic 3D Reconstruction With Continuous Regularization and Ray Potentials Using a Visibility Consistency Constraint
    * Year: `2016`
    * Authors: Nikolay Savinov, Christian Hane, Lubor Ladicky, Marc Pollefeys
    * Abstract: We propose an approach for dense semantic 3D reconstruction which uses a data term that is defined as potentials over viewing rays, combined with continuous surface area penalization. Our formulation is a convex relaxation which we augment with a crucial non-convex constraint that ensures exact handling of visibility. To tackle the non-convex minimization problem, we propose a majorize-minimize type strategy which converges to a critical point. We demonstrate the benefits of using the non-convex constraint experimentally. For the geometry-only case, we set a new state of the art on two datasets of the commonly used Middlebury multi-view stereo benchmark. Moreover, our general-purpose formulation directly reconstructs thin objects, which are usually treated with specialized algorithms. A qualitative evaluation on the dense semantic 3D reconstruction task shows that we improve significantly over previous methods.

    Count: 3* Patches, Planes and Probabilities: A Non-Local Prior for Volumetric 3D Reconstruction
    [[abs-CVPR](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_cvpr_2016/html/Ulusoy_Patches_Planes_and_CVPR_2016_paper.html)]
    [[pdf-CVPR](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_cvpr_2016/papers/Ulusoy_Patches_Planes_and_CVPR_2016_paper.pdf)]
    * Title: Patches, Planes and Probabilities: A Non-Local Prior for Volumetric 3D Reconstruction
    * Year: `2016`
    * Authors: Ali Osman Ulusoy, Michael J. Black, Andreas Geiger
    * Abstract: In this paper, we propose a non-local structured prior for volumetric multi-view 3D reconstruction. Towards this goal, we present a novel Markov random field model based on ray potentials in which assumptions about large 3D surface patches such as planarity or Manhattan world constraints can be efficiently encoded as probabilistic priors. We further derive an inference algorithm that reasons jointly about voxels, pixels and image segments, and estimates marginal distributions of appearance, occupancy, depth, normals and planarity. Key to tractable inference is a novel hybrid representation that spans both voxel and pixel space and that integrates non-local information from 2D image segmentations in a principled way. We compare our non-local prior to commonly employed local smoothness assumptions and a variety of state-of-the-art volumetric reconstruction baselines on challenging outdoor scenes with textureless and reflective surfaces. Our experiments indicate that regularizing over larger distances has the potential to resolve ambiguities where local regularizers fail.

    Count: 2* Do Image Classifiers Generalize Across Time?
    [[abs-ICCV](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/ICCV2021/html/Shankar_Do_Image_Classifiers_Generalize_Across_Time_ICCV_2021_paper.html)]
    [[pdf-ICCV](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/ICCV2021/papers/Shankar_Do_Image_Classifiers_Generalize_Across_Time_ICCV_2021_paper.pdf)]
    * Title: Do Image Classifiers Generalize Across Time?
    * Year: `2021`
    * Authors: Vaishaal Shankar, Achal Dave, Rebecca Roelofs, Deva Ramanan, Benjamin Recht, Ludwig Schmidt
    * Abstract: Vision models notoriously flicker when applied to videos: they correctly recognize objects in some frames, but fail on perceptually similar, nearby frames. In this work, we systematically analyze the robustness of image classifiers to such temporal perturbations in videos. To do so, we construct two new datasets, ImageNet-Vid-Robust and YTBB-Robust, containing a total of 57,897 images grouped into 3,139 sets of perceptually similar images. Our datasets were derived from ImageNet-Vid and YouTube-BB, respectively, and thoroughly re-annotated by human experts for image similarity. We evaluate a diverse array of classifiers pre-trained on ImageNet and show a median classification accuracy drop of 16 and 10 points, respectively, on our two datasets. Additionally, we evaluate three detection models and show that natural perturbations induce both classification as well as localization errors, leading to a median drop in detection mAP of 14 points. Our analysis demonstrates that perturbations occurring naturally in videos pose a substantial and realistic challenge to deploying convolutional neural networks in environments that require both reliable and low-latency predictions.

    Count: 1* Scene Categorization With Spectral Features
    [[abs-ICCV](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_iccv_2017/html/Khan_Scene_Categorization_With_ICCV_2017_paper.html)]
    [[pdf-ICCV](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_ICCV_2017/papers/Khan_Scene_Categorization_With_ICCV_2017_paper.pdf)]
    * Title: Scene Categorization With Spectral Features
    * Year: `2017`
    * Authors: Salman H. Khan, Munawar Hayat, Fatih Porikli
    * Abstract: Spectral signatures of natural scenes were earlier found to be distinctive for different scene types with varying spatial envelope properties such as openness, naturalness, ruggedness, and symmetry. Recently, such handcrafted features have been outclassed by deep learning based representations. This paper proposes a novel spectral description of convolution features, implemented efficiently as a unitary transformation within deep network architectures. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first attempt to use deep learning based spectral features explicitly for image classification task. We show that the spectral transformation decorrelates convolutional activations, which reduces co-adaptation between feature detections, thus acts as an effective regularizer. Our approach achieves significant improvements on three large-scale scene-centric datasets (MIT-67, SUN-397, and Places-205). Furthermore, we evaluated the proposed approach on the attribute detection task where its superior performance manifests its relevance to semantically meaningful characteristics of natural scenes.

    Count: 1* Detection and Localization of Changes in Conditional Distributions
    [[abs-NeurIPS](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2022/hash/eb189151ced0ff808abafd16a51fec92-Abstract-Conference.html)]
    [[pdf-NeurIPS](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2022/file/eb189151ced0ff808abafd16a51fec92-Paper-Conference.pdf)]
    * Title: Detection and Localization of Changes in Conditional Distributions
    * Year: `2022`
    * Authors: Lizhen Nie, Dan Nicolae
    * Abstract: We study the change point problem that considers alterations in the conditional distribution of an inferential target on a set of covariates. This paired data scenario is in contrast to the standard setting where a sequentially observed variable is analyzed for potential changes in the marginal distribution. We propose new methodology for solving this problem, by starting from a simpler task that analyzes changes in conditional expectation, and generalizing the tools developed for that task to conditional distributions. Large sample properties of the proposed statistics are derived. In empirical studies, we illustrate the performance of the proposed method against baselines adapted from existing tools. Two real data applications are presented to demonstrate its potential.

    Count: 1