* DynamicEarthNet: Daily Multi-Spectral Satellite Dataset for Semantic Change Segmentation
    [[abs-CVPR](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2022/html/Toker_DynamicEarthNet_Daily_Multi-Spectral_Satellite_Dataset_for_Semantic_Change_Segmentation_CVPR_2022_paper.html)]
    [[pdf-CVPR](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2022/papers/Toker_DynamicEarthNet_Daily_Multi-Spectral_Satellite_Dataset_for_Semantic_Change_Segmentation_CVPR_2022_paper.pdf)]
    * Title: DynamicEarthNet: Daily Multi-Spectral Satellite Dataset for Semantic Change Segmentation
    * Year: `2022`
    * Authors: Aysim Toker, Lukas Kondmann, Mark Weber, Marvin Eisenberger, Andrés Camero, Jingliang Hu, Ariadna Pregel Hoderlein, Çağlar Şenaras, Timothy Davis, Daniel Cremers, Giovanni Marchisio, Xiao Xiang Zhu, Laura Leal-Taixé
    * Abstract: Earth observation is a fundamental tool for monitoring the evolution of land use in specific areas of interest. Observing and precisely defining change, in this context, requires both time-series data and pixel-wise segmentations. To that end, we propose the DynamicEarthNet dataset that consists of daily, multi-spectral satellite observations of 75 selected areas of interest distributed over the globe with imagery from Planet Labs. These observations are paired with pixel-wise monthly semantic segmentation labels of 7 land use and land cover (LULC) classes. DynamicEarthNet is the first dataset that provides this unique combination of daily measurements and high-quality labels. In our experiments, we compare several established baselines that either utilize the daily observations as additional training data (semi-supervised learning) or multiple observations at once (spatio-temporal learning) as a point of reference for future research. Finally, we propose a new evaluation metric SCS that addresses the specific challenges associated with time-series semantic change segmentation. The data is available at: https://mediatum.ub.tum.de/1650201.

    Count: 3* Change Event Dataset for Discovery from Spatio-temporal Remote Sensing Imagery
    [[abs-NeurIPS](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2022/hash/b01153e7112b347d8ed54f317840d8af-Abstract-Datasets_and_Benchmarks.html)]
    [[pdf-NeurIPS](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2022/file/b01153e7112b347d8ed54f317840d8af-Paper-Datasets_and_Benchmarks.pdf)]
    * Title: Change Event Dataset for Discovery from Spatio-temporal Remote Sensing Imagery
    * Year: `2022`
    * Authors: Utkarsh Mall, Bharath Hariharan, Kavita Bala
    * Abstract: Satellite imagery is increasingly available, high resolution, and temporally detailed. Changes in spatio-temporal datasets such as satellite images are particularly interesting as they reveal the many events and forces that shape our world. However, finding such interesting and meaningful change events from the vast data is challenging. In this paper, we present new datasets for such change events that include semantically meaningful events like road construction. Instead of manually annotating the very large corpus of satellite images, we introduce a novel unsupervised approach that takes a large spatio-temporal dataset from satellite images and finds interesting change events. To evaluate the meaningfulness on these datasets we create 2 benchmarks namely CaiRoad and CalFire which capture the events of road construction and forest fires. These new benchmarks can be used to evaluate semantic retrieval/classification performance. We explore these benchmarks qualitatively and quantitatively by using several methods and show that these new datasets are indeed challenging for many existing methods.

    Count: 3* Self-Supervised Material and Texture Representation Learning for Remote Sensing Tasks
    [[abs-CVPR](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2022/html/Akiva_Self-Supervised_Material_and_Texture_Representation_Learning_for_Remote_Sensing_Tasks_CVPR_2022_paper.html)]
    [[pdf-CVPR](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2022/papers/Akiva_Self-Supervised_Material_and_Texture_Representation_Learning_for_Remote_Sensing_Tasks_CVPR_2022_paper.pdf)]
    * Title: Self-Supervised Material and Texture Representation Learning for Remote Sensing Tasks
    * Year: `2022`
    * Authors: Peri Akiva, Matthew Purri, Matthew Leotta
    * Abstract: Self-supervised learning aims to learn image feature representations without the usage of manually annotated labels. It is often used as a precursor step to obtain useful initial network weights which contribute to faster convergence and superior performance of downstream tasks. While self-supervision allows one to reduce the domain gap between supervised and unsupervised learning without the usage of labels, the self-supervised objective still requires a strong inductive bias to downstream tasks for effective transfer learning. In this work, we present our material and texture based self-supervision method named MATTER (MATerial and TExture Representation Learning), which is inspired by classical material and texture methods. Material and texture can effectively describe any surface, including its tactile properties, color, and specularity. By extension, effective representation of material and texture can describe other semantic classes strongly associated with said material and texture. MATTER leverages multi-temporal, spatially aligned remote sensing imagery over unchanged regions to learn invariance to illumination and viewing angle as a mechanism to achieve consistency of material and texture representation. We show that our self-supervision pre-training method allows for up to 24.22% and 6.33% performance increase in unsupervised and fine-tuned setups, and up to 76% faster convergence on change detection, land cover classification, and semantic segmentation tasks.

    Count: 1* Change-Aware Sampling and Contrastive Learning for Satellite Images
    [[abs-CVPR](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2023/html/Mall_Change-Aware_Sampling_and_Contrastive_Learning_for_Satellite_Images_CVPR_2023_paper.html)]
    [[pdf-CVPR](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2023/papers/Mall_Change-Aware_Sampling_and_Contrastive_Learning_for_Satellite_Images_CVPR_2023_paper.pdf)]
    * Title: Change-Aware Sampling and Contrastive Learning for Satellite Images
    * Year: `2023`
    * Authors: Utkarsh Mall, Bharath Hariharan, Kavita Bala
    * Abstract: Automatic remote sensing tools can help inform many large-scale challenges such as disaster management, climate change, etc. While a vast amount of spatio-temporal satellite image data is readily available, most of it remains unlabelled. Without labels, this data is not very useful for supervised learning algorithms. Self-supervised learning instead provides a way to learn effective representations for various downstream tasks without labels. In this work, we leverage characteristics unique to satellite images to learn better self-supervised features. Specifically, we use the temporal signal to contrast images with long-term and short-term differences, and we leverage the fact that satellite images do not change frequently. Using these characteristics, we formulate a new loss contrastive loss called Change-Aware Contrastive (CACo) Loss. Further, we also present a novel method of sampling different geographical regions. We show that leveraging these properties leads to better performance on diverse downstream tasks. For example, we see a 6.5% relative improvement for semantic segmentation and an 8.5% relative improvement for change detection over the best-performing baseline with our method.

    Count: 1* Describing and Localizing Multiple Changes With Transformers
    [[abs-ICCV](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/ICCV2021/html/Qiu_Describing_and_Localizing_Multiple_Changes_With_Transformers_ICCV_2021_paper.html)]
    [[pdf-ICCV](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/ICCV2021/papers/Qiu_Describing_and_Localizing_Multiple_Changes_With_Transformers_ICCV_2021_paper.pdf)]
    * Title: Describing and Localizing Multiple Changes With Transformers
    * Year: `2021`
    * Authors: Yue Qiu, Shintaro Yamamoto, Kodai Nakashima, Ryota Suzuki, Kenji Iwata, Hirokatsu Kataoka, Yutaka Satoh
    * Abstract: Existing change captioning studies have mainly focused on a single change. However, detecting and describing multiple changed parts in image pairs is essential for enhancing adaptability to complex scenarios. We solve the above issues from three aspects: (i) We propose a simulation-based multi-change captioning dataset; (ii) We benchmark existing state-of-the-art methods of single change captioning on multi-change captioning; (iii) We further propose Multi-Change Captioning transformers (MCCFormers) that identify change regions by densely correlating different regions in image pairs and dynamically determines the related change regions with words in sentences. The proposed method obtained the highest scores on four conventional change captioning evaluation metrics for multi-change captioning. Additionally, our proposed method can separate attention maps for each change and performs well with respect to change localization. Moreover, the proposed framework outperformed the previous state-of-the-art methods on an existing change captioning benchmark, CLEVR-Change, by a large margin (+6.1 on BLEU-4 and +9.7 on CIDEr scores), indicating its general ability in change captioning tasks. The code and dataset are available at the project page.

    Count: 1