* Speed Invariant Time Surface for Learning to Detect Corner Points With Event-Based Cameras
    [[abs-CVPR](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_CVPR_2019/html/Manderscheid_Speed_Invariant_Time_Surface_for_Learning_to_Detect_Corner_Points_CVPR_2019_paper.html)]
    [[pdf-CVPR](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_CVPR_2019/papers/Manderscheid_Speed_Invariant_Time_Surface_for_Learning_to_Detect_Corner_Points_CVPR_2019_paper.pdf)]
    * Title: Speed Invariant Time Surface for Learning to Detect Corner Points With Event-Based Cameras
    * Year: `2019`
    * Authors: Jacques Manderscheid,  Amos Sironi,  Nicolas Bourdis,  Davide Migliore,  Vincent Lepetit
    * Abstract: We propose a learning approach to corner detection for event-based cameras that is stable even under fast and abrupt motions. Event-based cameras offer high temporal resolution, power efficiency, and high dynamic range. However, the properties of event-based data are very different compared to standard intensity images, and simple extensions of corner detection methods designed for these images do not perform well on event-based data. We first introduce an efficient way to compute a time surface that is invariant to the speed of the objects. We then show that we can train a Random Forest to recognize events generated by a moving corner from our time surface. Random Forests are also extremely efficient, and therefore a good choice to deal with the high capture frequency of event-based cameras ---our implementation processes up to 1.6Mev/s on a single CPU. Thanks to our time surface formulation and this learning approach, our method is significantly more robust to abrupt changes of direction of the corners compared to previous ones. Our method also naturally assigns a confidence score for the corners, which can be useful for postprocessing. Moreover, we introduce a high-resolution dataset suitable for quantitative evaluation and comparison of corner detection methods for event-based cameras. We call our approach SILC, for Speed Invariant Learned Corners, and compare it to the state-of-the-art with extensive experiments, showing better performance.

    Count: 5* On the Exploration of Local Significant Differences For Two-Sample Test
    [[abs-NeurIPS](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2023/hash/10fc83943b4540a9524af6fc67a23fef-Abstract-Conference.html)]
    [[pdf-NeurIPS](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2023/file/10fc83943b4540a9524af6fc67a23fef-Paper-Conference.pdf)]
    * Title: On the Exploration of Local Significant Differences For Two-Sample Test
    * Year: `2023`
    * Authors: Zhijian Zhou, Jie Ni, Jia-He Yao, Wei Gao
    * Abstract: Recent years have witnessed increasing attentions on two-sample test with diverse real applications, while this work takes one more step on the exploration of local significant differences for two-sample test. We propose the ME$_\text{MaBiD}$, an effective test for two-sample testing, and the basic idea is to exploit local information by multiple Mahalanobis kernels and introduce bi-directional hypothesis for testing. On the exploration of local significant differences, we first partition the embedding space into several rectangle regions via a new splitting criterion, which is relevant to test power and data correlation. We then explore local significant differences based on our bi-directional masked $p$-value together with the ME$_\text{MaBiD}$ test. Theoretically, we present the asymptotic distribution and lower bounds of test power for our ME$_\text{MaBiD}$ test, and control the familywise error rate on the exploration of local significant differences. We finally conduct extensive experiments to validate the effectiveness of our proposed methods on two-sample test and the exploration of local significant differences.

    Count: 4* SSL4EO-L: Datasets and Foundation Models for Landsat Imagery
    [[abs-NeurIPS](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2023/hash/bbf7ee04e2aefec136ecf60e346c2e61-Abstract-Datasets_and_Benchmarks.html)]
    [[pdf-NeurIPS](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2023/file/bbf7ee04e2aefec136ecf60e346c2e61-Paper-Datasets_and_Benchmarks.pdf)]
    * Title: SSL4EO-L: Datasets and Foundation Models for Landsat Imagery
    * Year: `2023`
    * Authors: Adam Stewart, Nils Lehmann, Isaac Corley, Yi Wang, Yi-Chia Chang, Nassim Ait Ait Ali Braham, Shradha Sehgal, Caleb Robinson, Arindam Banerjee
    * Abstract: The Landsat program is the longest-running Earth observation program in history, with 50+ years of data acquisition by 8 satellites. The multispectral imagery captured by sensors onboard these satellites is critical for a wide range of scientific fields. Despite the increasing popularity of deep learning and remote sensing, the majority of researchers still use decision trees and random forests for Landsat image analysis due to the prevalence of small labeled datasets and lack of foundation models. In this paper, we introduce SSL4EO-L, the first ever dataset designed for Self-Supervised Learning for Earth Observation for the Landsat family of satellites (including 3 sensors and 2 product levels) and the largest Landsat dataset in history (5M image patches). Additionally, we modernize and re-release the L7 Irish and L8 Biome cloud detection datasets, and introduce the first ML benchmark datasets for Landsats 4–5 TM and Landsat 7 ETM+ SR. Finally, we pre-train the first foundation models for Landsat imagery using SSL4EO-L and evaluate their performance on multiple semantic segmentation tasks. All datasets and model weights are available via the TorchGeo library, making reproducibility and experimentation easy, and enabling scientific advancements in the burgeoning field of remote sensing for a multitude of downstream applications.

    Count: 3* Learning without Exact Guidance: Updating Large-scale High-resolution Land Cover Maps from Low-resolution Historical Labels
    [[abs-CVPR](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2024/html/Li_Learning_without_Exact_Guidance_Updating_Large-scale_High-resolution_Land_Cover_Maps_CVPR_2024_paper.html)]
    [[pdf-CVPR](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2024/papers/Li_Learning_without_Exact_Guidance_Updating_Large-scale_High-resolution_Land_Cover_Maps_CVPR_2024_paper.pdf)]
    * Title: Learning without Exact Guidance: Updating Large-scale High-resolution Land Cover Maps from Low-resolution Historical Labels
    * Year: `2024`
    * Authors: Zhuohong Li, Wei He, Jiepan Li, Fangxiao Lu, Hongyan Zhang
    * Abstract: Large-scale high-resolution (HR) land-cover mapping is a vital task to survey the Earth's surface and resolve many challenges facing humanity. However it is still a non-trivial task hindered by complex ground details various landforms and the scarcity of accurate training labels over a wide-span geographic area. In this paper we propose an efficient weakly supervised framework (Paraformer) to guide large-scale HR land-cover mapping with easy-access historical land-cover data of low resolution (LR). Specifically existing land-cover mapping approaches reveal the dominance of CNNs in preserving local ground details but still suffer from insufficient global modeling in various landforms. Therefore we design a parallel CNN-Transformer feature extractor in Paraformer consisting of a downsampling-free CNN branch and a Transformer branch to jointly capture local and global contextual information. Besides facing the spatial mismatch of training data a pseudo-label-assisted training (PLAT) module is adopted to reasonably refine LR labels for weakly supervised semantic segmentation of HR images. Experiments on two large-scale datasets demonstrate the superiority of Paraformer over other state-of-the-art methods for automatically updating HR land-cover maps from LR historical labels.

    Count: 2* Dynamic Time-Of-Flight
    [[abs-CVPR](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_cvpr_2017/html/Schober_Dynamic_Time-Of-Flight_CVPR_2017_paper.html)]
    [[pdf-CVPR](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_cvpr_2017/papers/Schober_Dynamic_Time-Of-Flight_CVPR_2017_paper.pdf)]
    * Title: Dynamic Time-Of-Flight
    * Year: `2017`
    * Authors: Michael Schober, Amit Adam, Omer Yair, Shai Mazor, Sebastian Nowozin
    * Abstract: Time-of-flight (TOF) depth cameras provide robust depth inference at low power requirements in a wide variety of consumer and industrial applications. These cameras reconstruct a single depth frame from a given set of infrared (IR) frames captured over a very short exposure period. Operating in this mode the camera essentially forgets all information previously captured - and performs depth inference from scratch for every frame. We challenge this practice and propose using previously captured information when inferring depth. An inherent problem we have to address is camera motion over this longer period of collecting observations. We derive a probabilistic framework combining a simple but robust model of camera and object motion, together with an observation model. This combination allows us to integrate information over multiple frames while remaining robust to rapid changes. Operating the camera in this manner has implications in terms of both computational efficiency and how information should be captured. We address these two issues and demonstrate a realtime TOF system with robust temporal integration that improves depth accuracy over strong baseline methods including adaptive spatio-temporal filters.

    Count: 1