* Learning without Exact Guidance: Updating Large-scale High-resolution Land Cover Maps from Low-resolution Historical Labels
    [[abs-CVPR](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2024/html/Li_Learning_without_Exact_Guidance_Updating_Large-scale_High-resolution_Land_Cover_Maps_CVPR_2024_paper.html)]
    [[pdf-CVPR](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2024/papers/Li_Learning_without_Exact_Guidance_Updating_Large-scale_High-resolution_Land_Cover_Maps_CVPR_2024_paper.pdf)]
    * Title: Learning without Exact Guidance: Updating Large-scale High-resolution Land Cover Maps from Low-resolution Historical Labels
    * Year: `2024`
    * Authors: Zhuohong Li, Wei He, Jiepan Li, Fangxiao Lu, Hongyan Zhang
    * Abstract: Large-scale high-resolution (HR) land-cover mapping is a vital task to survey the Earth's surface and resolve many challenges facing humanity. However it is still a non-trivial task hindered by complex ground details various landforms and the scarcity of accurate training labels over a wide-span geographic area. In this paper we propose an efficient weakly supervised framework (Paraformer) to guide large-scale HR land-cover mapping with easy-access historical land-cover data of low resolution (LR). Specifically existing land-cover mapping approaches reveal the dominance of CNNs in preserving local ground details but still suffer from insufficient global modeling in various landforms. Therefore we design a parallel CNN-Transformer feature extractor in Paraformer consisting of a downsampling-free CNN branch and a Transformer branch to jointly capture local and global contextual information. Besides facing the spatial mismatch of training data a pseudo-label-assisted training (PLAT) module is adopted to reasonably refine LR labels for weakly supervised semantic segmentation of HR images. Experiments on two large-scale datasets demonstrate the superiority of Paraformer over other state-of-the-art methods for automatically updating HR land-cover maps from LR historical labels.

    Count: 4* Generic Event Boundary Detection: A Benchmark for Event Segmentation
    [[abs-ICCV](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/ICCV2021/html/Shou_Generic_Event_Boundary_Detection_A_Benchmark_for_Event_Segmentation_ICCV_2021_paper.html)]
    [[pdf-ICCV](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/ICCV2021/papers/Shou_Generic_Event_Boundary_Detection_A_Benchmark_for_Event_Segmentation_ICCV_2021_paper.pdf)]
    * Title: Generic Event Boundary Detection: A Benchmark for Event Segmentation
    * Year: `2021`
    * Authors: Mike Zheng Shou, Stan Weixian Lei, Weiyao Wang, Deepti Ghadiyaram, Matt Feiszli
    * Abstract: This paper presents a novel task together with a new benchmark for detecting generic, taxonomy-free event boundaries that segment a whole video into chunks. Conventional work in temporal video segmentation and action detection focuses on localizing pre-defined action categories and thus does not scale to generic videos. Cognitive Science has known since last century that humans consistently segment videos into meaningful temporal chunks. This segmentation happens naturally, without pre-defined event categories and without being explicitly asked to do so. Here, we repeat these cognitive experiments on mainstream CV datasets; with our novel annotation guideline which addresses the complexities of taxonomy-free event boundary annotation, we introduce the task of Generic Event Boundary Detection (GEBD) and the new benchmark Kinetics-GEBD. We view GEBD as an important stepping stone towards understanding the video as a whole, and believe it has been previously neglected due to a lack of proper task definition and annotations. Through experiment and human study we demonstrate the value of the annotations. Further, we benchmark supervised and un-supervised GEBD approaches on the TAPOS dataset and our Kinetics-GEBD. We release our annotations and baseline codes at CVPR'21 LOVEU Challenge: https://sites.google.com/view/loveucvpr21.

    Count: 2* Now You Shake Me: Towards Automatic 4D Cinema
    [[abs-CVPR](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_cvpr_2018/html/Zhou_Now_You_Shake_CVPR_2018_paper.html)]
    [[pdf-CVPR](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_cvpr_2018/papers/Zhou_Now_You_Shake_CVPR_2018_paper.pdf)]
    * Title: Now You Shake Me: Towards Automatic 4D Cinema
    * Year: `2018`
    * Authors: Yuhao Zhou, Makarand Tapaswi, Sanja Fidler
    * Abstract: We are interested in enabling automatic 4D cinema by parsing physical and special effects from untrimmed movies. These include effects such as physical interactions, water splashing, light, and shaking, and are grounded to either a character in the scene or the camera. We collect a new dataset referred to as the Movie4D dataset which annotates over 9K effects in 63 movies. We propose a Conditional Random Field model atop a neural network that brings together visual and audio information, as well as semantics in the form of person tracks. Our model further exploits correlations of effects between different characters in the clip as well as across movie threads. We propose effect detection and classification as two tasks, and present results along with ablation studies on our dataset, paving the way towards 4D cinema in everyone’s homes.

    Count: 1